introduction to AWS IOT
dynamoDB
Amazon s3
key features of an IOT Platform
various components
how it works and other AWS services?
manage cloud platform........connect billions of devices easily and securely interact with clousd apps and other devices....supports billion devices and trillion messages
and process and route those messages to AWS end points and to other devices reliably and securely
AWS IOT....keep track....communicate with all devices....all the time....even offline....
easy to use....AWS services....build IOT applications that gather process and analyze and act on data generated by connected devices....without using heavy infrastructure..
AWS Lambda, Amazon Kinesis, Amazon S3, Amazon Machine Learning, Amazon DynamoDB, Amazon cloud Watch, Amazon cloud trial, and amazon elastic search service with built in cibana integration
key feature of a IOT Platform....
protocol support to assist, low power, low spec devives with comms....this doesnt just mean less packet size but, low code footprint also....
li-ion batt,....sensor devicess....expect to run years....devices with bulk protocol are aainst this use case...which take more power and processing to do the same operation....
scalability.....upto iot grade by iot grade....we are talking billions and trillions....unlike IT grade volumes...in IOT ecosystem daa range might be in pedabyte scale....
Security biggest road block for large scale adoption...breach of sensitive information like PII....control and data breach....serious repurcussions
integration with cloud and mobile apps.....visual analytics.....ML/AI.....wealth of data that devices gather from eco systems...
strong SDK suite for application enhancement.....


communication......
Device gateway....
enables devices to securely and efficiently....communicate with AWS IOT....
exchange messages using publisher subscriber model.....one to one.....and one to many communications....
so a device can broadcast data to multiple subcribers.....on a given topic....MQTT,Websocket,http1.1 protocols
device gateway hosts message broker, AWS iot publish subscribe broker service that enables messages send/receive, to and from AWS IOT
topic : example : Sensor/Temp/Room1...client sends a message to this topic
message broker sends messages(this act is called publishing) to all clients that are registered/programmed to receive messages(subscribers) on that topic....
topic namespace is isolated to each AWS account and region pair....
AWS IOT will not allow messages from one AWS account to other....and from one region to another
message broker maintains list of all sessions and list of subscriptions for each session....
when a message is published on a topic, broker checks for all client sessions, that are mapped to the topic....which are subscribed to the topic....
the forwards messages to all sessions that have a currently connected client....
added layer of security(IAM rules, policies)......in AWS IOT....when message are passing through....from users,sensor devices to other services 
every device credentials for accessing message broker......encrypted through transport layer security.....credentials should be safe
4 types of identity principles....X.509 certificates(typical).....IAM users,groups and roles.....Amazon cognito identities(mob).....federated identities(mob,web,desk,awsiot cli-iam)......AWS iot policies....IAM policies
an identity can execute any operation...only if it has policy permissions.......so...these iot and iam policies are used to control operations of an identity......policy type depends on type of identity to authenticate with AWS IOT...

rules engine............
listens to incoming MQTT messages that match with the rules.....then rules engine takes the action according to data and message recieved.....writing data to s3 bucket, invoking a lambda function.....or sending message to amazon S&S topic

seattle car ......bad driving conditions....rain.....connected car module.....engine telemetry data.......to AWS IOT....rules engine....match rules.....sends....to all traffic nearby....to adjust speed

 

 





